+++
title = "v1.9.0"
weight = 1
+++

# NSM v1.9.0

## Release Schedule


- **Feature Freeze** -  2023-04-18
- **Release Notes** -  2023-04-25
- **Release Candidate** -  2023-04-25
- **Release** -  2023-05-02


## Planned Enhancements

### Add support AF_XDP


Currently, cmd-forwarder-vpp uses AF_PACKET to bind to an existing Node interface using LinkToAfPacket

AF_XDP is faster than AF_PACKET, but AF_XDP is only useable for our purposes from kernel version 5.4 onward. The good news is that lots of places have kernel versions that new (including the more recent version of Docker Desktop).


See more details at https://github.com/networkservicemesh/cmd-forwarder-vpp/issues/283

### Make SRIOV VFs to push/pop tags like vlan or vxlan. 

See more details at https://github.com/networkservicemesh/sdk-sriov/issues/489

### Advanced interdomain and floating interdomain examples

Planned to add a couple of new examples for floating interdomain and interdomain NSM setups.


Planned to implement these examples:

- Interdomain DNS
- Interdomain vL3 DNS
- Interdomain NSE composition
- Floating interdomain DNS
- Floating interdomain vL3 Dns
- Floating interdomain NSE composition

### Add DNS PTR records support

https://github.com/networkservicemesh/sdk/issues/1425

### Rework interdomain-k8s repository / get rid of cloudtest from interdomain repository

Currently, we still use cloudtest tool in interdomain repository. Now we can rework and remove cloudtest from NSM deps.

### Develop a new Security setup for NSM via 

An identity provider (abbreviated IdP or IDP) is a system entity that creates, maintains, and manages identity information for principals and also provides authentication services to relying on applications within a federation or distributed network.


We plan to integrate NSM with GitHub IdP for the first step.


### Consider NSM corner cases


See more details in https://github.com/networkservicemesh/sdk/issues/1434


### Improve system stability

We plan to continue to improve stability of NSM and consider all reported bugs during release development.




